.\"	Xt.4 -- 1.2 Sep 30 06:44:32 1993
.\"	Copyright (c) 1993 Axel T. Schreiner
.TH Xt 4 "local: ats"
.SH NAME
\f3Class  Xt: Object\fP \(em input/output objects for X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
Objct
    \f3Xt\fP
        XawBox
        XawCommand
            XButton
        XawForm
        XawLabel
            XLineOut
        XtApplicationShell
.sp .5
.B new(Xt());
.BI "new(XtApplicationShell(), & " argc ", " argv );
\f3new(XawBox(), \f2parent\f3, "\f2name\f3");\f1
\f3new(XawCommand(), \f2parent\f3, "\f2name\f3");\f1
\f3new(XawForm(), \f2parent\f3, "\f2name\f3");\f1
\f3new(XawLabel(), \f2parent\f3, "\f2name\f3");\f1
\f3new(XButton(), \f2parent\f3, "\f2name\f3", "\f2label\f3");\f1
\f3new(XLineOut(), \f2parent\f3, "\f2name\f3", "\f2label\f3");\f1
.sp .5
\f3void * makeWidget (\f2self\f3, WidgetClass \f2wc\f3, va_list * \f2app\f3)\f1
.BI "void addAllAccelerators (" self )
\f3void setLabel (\f2self\f3, const char * \f2label\f3)\f1
\f3void addCallback (\f2self\f3, XtCallbackProc \f2fun\f3, XtPointer \f2data\f3)\f1
.sp .5
.BI "void mainLoop (" self )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
An
.B Xt
object wraps a widget from the X toolkit.
.B makeWidget()
is used to create and install the widget in the hierarchy;
it takes a
.I parent
.B Xt
object and a widget
.I name
from the argument list pointer to which
.I app
points.
.B addAllAccelerators()
is used to install the accelerators below the
.B Xt
object.
.B setLabel()
sets the
.B label
resource.
.B addCallback()
adds a callback function to the
.B callback
list.
.PP
An
.B XtApplicationShell
object wraps an application shell widget from the X toolkit.
When it is created,
the shell widget is also created
and X toolkit options are removed from the main program
argument list passed to
.BR new() .
The application main loop is
.BR mainLoop() .
.PP
.BR XawBox ,
.BR XawCommand ,
.BR XawForm ,
and
.BR XawLabel
objects wrap the corresponding Athena widgets.
When they are created,
the widgets are also created.
.B setLabel()
is accepted by
.B XawCommand
and
.BR XawLabel .
A callback function can be registered with an
.B XawCommand
object by
.BR addCallback() .
.PP
An
.B XButton
object is a
.B Button
object implemented with an
.B XawCommand
object.
It forwards
.B wire()
to its internal
.B Button
object and it sets a callback to
.B gate()
to this button
so that it sends its
.I text
on if
.B notify()
is executed, i.e., if the button is clicked.
Accelerators can be used to arrange for other calls to
.BR notify() .
.PP
An
.B XLineOut
object is a
.B LineOut
object implemented with an
.B XawLabel
object.
It forwards
.B gate()
to itself to receive and display a string.
If permitted by the parent widget,
its widget will change its size according to the string.
.SH SEE ALSO
Event(4)
